Meston looks at the importance of Indigenous digital activism in education and the challenges faced in incorporating digital technologies in Australian classrooms. He highlights the need for Indigenous communities to have control over technology and data sovereignty to counter systemic challenges and empower Indigenous learners. He calls for communities to take control of their digital presence in order to control their digital future. He proposes that communities forge an Indigenous futurology, community-centered digital learning hubs, and curricular materials to nurture disruptive Indigenous digital activists.
# Key Quotes
> [!Quote] Quote
>disparate theoretical threads are braided to form Critical Indigenous Futurology (CIF), so as to enable the possibility of imagining a range of possible, probable, and preferred Indigenous educational futures. While offering immediate value for educational design, with future articulation, a braided theoretical tool would open the possibilities of multi-disciplinary research, which visions and maps strategies to better disrupt many of the sites of operation essential to the function of Australia’s racialised socio-technical system.

> [!Quote] Quote
>The imperative of Indigenous educational sovereignty, where learning is driven by Elders and knowl- edge holders, in Indigenous languages and on traditional lands, are central compo- nents of the UNDRIP (2007), yet are not deemed essential or recognised by Aus- tralian governments. Over time, the strategic resource extraction from Australian schools would feed into the community-controlled digital learning hubs.

# My Thoughts
  - The work of digital tool development in communities needs to be done slowly and carefully and measured against its effects on individuals and community, constantly adjusted to serve the goal of survivance. At the same time it needs to happen and so there is a need to develop digital media efficacy in community members and to develop the infrastructure needed to care for it on Indigenous lands.
  - As Meston argues there are opportunities for Indigenous communities to extract from dominant systems the knowledge needed to become digitally distinct and independent. This needs to be done through active pressure on these systems to provide materials that are supportive of identity and high standards of learning. The pressure will have to come from both outside and inside the institutions of education.

# Relation to [[4. Sociotechnical impacts of digital affordances on Indigenous community]]
  - A focused effort to acquire the skills and content knowledge of working with digital media and computational tools is required in Indigenous community. With the learning of these pieces, communities can begin to control their digital realms as well as develop solutions and tools that will suit their needs. Digital solutions that are purchased from non-Indigenous technical providers need significant alteration to work in Indigenous communities (see [[A Dynamic Perspective of Internet Service Provider Adoption of Emergent Network Technology]]). Therefore communities need either people in community who can work with these technologies to bring them to a useful state, or people who can build solutions from scratch. 

