In the article, Shizhwa looks at the current state of Indigenous knowledge in Zimbabwe schools and finds a need for a framework to explore the relationships between traditional knowledge and modern western interpretations of science that are complementary as opposed to contradictory. He notes for example that sustainable practices are core to Zimbabwe knowledge systems and have been practiced for centuries, while the concept of sustainability is new concept in Western science. While using home language and points-of-view support student understanding Zimbabwe schooling still prefers to teach through a Eurocentric lens even after independence, and ignore local contextual examples of scientific content. He argues the barriers to integrating Indigenous knowledge in science classrooms is in the teachers themselves, which is upheld by the demands of the system and expectations of all stakeholders. Teachers are found to give western science "higher status than indigenous knowledge" and that, "Teachers who provided the above narratives were concerned largely with meeting international recognition through the use of English in science."
The focus on English for transmission of knowledge hampers learning for students whose first language is not English and misses opportunities to teach students through linguistic traditions they have learned at home and use regularly. Shizwa holds that several things are needed to bring about change: system leaders need to be cognizant that western and Indigenous knowledge can compliment each other, centres for Indigenous knowledge need to be created at universities, and parents and community need to be widely involved in developing meaningful educational connections between science and home.
# Key Quotes
> [!Quote] Quote
>There are many ways of understanding and giving meaning to nature. Science is a cultural construct, and there are many “cultural scientific communities” (Ogawa, 1995) that are not exclusive to Western societies. Arguably, the differences between modern science and indigenous science exist not so much in the content, but in the ways of knowing and the interpretative framework that underpins such knowledge.

> [!Quote] Quote
>The teachers who equated school science with Western science were cynical about indigenous knowledge. The concept of science and the treatment of science expressed by these teachers are based on drawing a contrast between a “dynamic modern science” and a “static, traditional one,” that is, between a “rational” West and a “mythical” Africa whose cultural forms should be “corrected” or “civilized.”
# My Thoughts
  - The separation of knowledge from home language is only a part of the issue. The lack of understanding about Indigenous words and their deeper meaning is also an issue when it comes to understanding concepts in Indigenous culture. Basic Johnston for example has said there are 3 levels of meaning in Anishinaabe words. I find translation of these words into English looses meaning except for those who are taught the deeper meaning of words and connections to the original word. For example Manido (also written as manitou) is translated widely as "spirit" which hides the depth of meaning. The singular translation divests the word of is strength in explaining phenomena.
  - There is more to the issue of English language use beyond its foreign status for some students. We should also consider the difference between home English and school English. Even students whose first language is English might be excluded from classroom discussion based in the type of English they have learned and use at home.

# Relation to [[3. Colonial STEM education issues]]
  - The article looks at a set of issues specific to Zimbabwe, that are generalizable across many jurisdictions. As seen in many of the articles discussed in this archive, cultural superiority inherent in western education related to science impedes Indigenous students learning content and fully participating in classes. It also damages their own understanding of their cultural knowledge, relegating to a substandard status.
  - There is a connection between language use in the classroom and students being able to fully participate in science education. Even in a society that is controlled by the Indigenous population, a default position to Eurocentrism interrupts students learning their culture and limits their point of view.

# Links to Other Pages
- BASIL H. JOHNSTON. (2013). Is That All There Is?: Tribal Literature. In _Centering Anishinaabeg Studies_ (pp. 3-). Michigan State University Press. https://ojs.library.ubc.ca/index.php/canlit/article/view/193640/189936