The article discusses the idea of "epistemological trouble" and a third-paradigm "successor science" as it relates to Human-Computer Interaction (HCI). It advocates for a critical examination of mainstream knowledge frameworks in the field and being fully aware of their origins in existing science related methodological paradigms. It highlights the significance of "embodied interaction" and situated perspectives to redefine interface design, drawing on feminist philosophy of science for theoretical guidance. The text emphasizes the necessity of valuing diverse perspectives and detailed contextual understanding in HCI research, thereby challenging traditional notions of knowledge production.

Furthermore, the article argues that HCI research must be aware because it is drawing from different perspectives and lived experiences, it must acknowledge it cannot establish a universally applicable understanding of HCI principles.
# Key Quotes
> [!Quote] Quote
>[F]eminist philosophy of science, having worked out the implications of standpoint epistemology, suggests that, if the third paradigm takes its own epistemological commitments seriously, it will not lead to a stable paradigm with clearly defined methodologies and outcomes, but must remain aware of and questioning its limits as a knowledge practice.

> [!Quote] Quote
>In contrast with how ICT4D is typically understood – the developing world as the topic of study of IT designers – postcolonial computing reframes the discussion around the consequences of taking cultural difference and its political dimensions seriously in the framing of IT design practice.
>(NOTE: for an explanation of ICT4D please see [this resource](https://encyclopedia.pub/entry/30285#:~:text=Information%20and%20communication%20technologies%20for%20development%20(ICT4D)%20refers%20to%20the,and%20marginalized%20people%20and%20communities.) as a starting place)

> [!Quote] Quote
>Just as laboratory studies of usability build on particular kinds of relationships between researchers and researched which may not make sense in contexts where they reproduce particular histories of cultural domination, so too does participatory design depend on notions of collective action which do not speak to all cultural contexts. Rather than determining which methodology is best, this suggests a need for continuing sensitivity to where methodologies come from and adaptations to make them locally meaningful.

# My Thoughts
  - The quote from Agre that a successor science would aware of its historical presence is interesting as it points out a process of being self aware of its affects. This is commensurate with Indigenous perspectives on research and the need for constant community connections in order to be more aware of effects. Any science or engineering practice of the future should be aware of the origins and results of all of its practices. In doing this alternate perspectives can be collaborated with or included in the larger discussion of knowledge and not pit a monolith of scientific knowledge developed out of Eurocentric system (perceived as the real science) against all other scientific knowledge that has been labeled as "folk knowledge".
  - Frameworks and methods can and do overlap in research. I agree with much of the article that points out there is a need to be aware of the origin of thought and a willingness to adapt to the needs of the situation in which research happens. Along with this there is a need to be aware of who research is conducted for and whom is affected by it (these are not always the same people). Indigenous practice would demand that research be done for the community that is affected by it.

# Relation to [[1. Introduction to HCI disruption]]
  - The article looks at the issues of trying to build a singular approach to HCI development and research. It sets up a basis for understanding the issues with a singular framework for solving human based problems when there is such a wide variety of experiences and paradigms. It is an important article because it lays out how feminist approaches to science support the work of a "third-paradigm" for HCI. One of the most important ideas in the article for this work is that highlights the need for multiple approaches to understanding Human and Computer interactions and that we should not be limiting ourselves in our pursuit of improvement in technological development.

# Links to Other Pages
  - [Harrison, S., Sengers, P., & Tatar, D. (2011). Making epistemological trouble: Third-paradigm HCI as successor science. Interacting with Computers, 23(5), 385–392.](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0953543811000300)