The article examines the field of ethnocomputing, which acknowledges the intersection of culture and computing. It looks at the existence of recursive knowledge flows and questions whether they are more useful than traditional unidirectional or bidirectional models of information exchange. Through a case study in Ghana, the authors look at a model that attempts to integrate Indigenous knowledge into mainstream education.
Ethnocomputing is presented as a research program that intersects with various domains, including "communities, academic research groups, classrooms, [and] corporations". The article suggests that by merging traditional bi-directional flows within indigenous cultures (e.g., interactions between nature and humans) and Western cultures (e.g., interactions between people and machines) it is possible for a recursive models to emerge, similar to nested recursive processes in computing. The study also explores the educational benefits of ethnocomputing, noting improved student learning through culturally responsive education, professional development opportunities for teachers.
# Key Quotes
> [!Quote] Quote
>[C]omplexities are often underreported because those of us working at the intersections of STEM and social justice are typically up against mainstream assumptions about *primitive cultures* or other colonial constructions. So, we often aim for a simple story — *the quipu was an ancient Peruvian data structure* — because we worry that teachers will not have time for complexity; skeptics will pounce on less firm statements; etc.

> [!Quote] Quote
>Rather than position emic perspectives as more local and cultural, and etic as more universal and objective, we show that both indigenous and western math/computing concepts arise from recursively-nested interactions of human, natural, and technical agencies, but that they diverge in their emphasis along locally determined pathways.

# My Thoughts
  - The article highlights what is a key issue for research work between the cultures. The western is not necessarily interested in learning from or with Indigenous people beyond seeing them as object of study to further their own purposes and their view of the world. The researchers label this as "methodological distancing" and it is familiar to the use of Indigenous perspectives in education when it conveniently upholds Western traditions (see [[Neo-colonialism in Our Schools]]). For us to move computing into a more collaborative relationship with Indigenous communities it would make sense to look at how it might serve communities based on their particular needs and paradigms as opposed to offering computing solutions that were developed for other cultures (in this case larger extractive economies).
  - As Lachney et al note ethnocomputing looks at the intersection between culture ethnicity and knowledge with computing whether it be inside community or groups of people in any organization. It is an interesting approach to thinking about what we teach regarding computer science beyond the language syntax of various programming tools. The study opens a discussion about how one thinks about digital tool development and makes the underlying philosophical process a little more clear.

# Relation to [[1. Introduction to HCI disruption]]
  - The article is interesting to read as an Introduction to the study of HCI theory and design because it based on studies that have attempted work within Indigenous paradigms. The work of the Ghana case study and Adinkra art practices offers a practical exploration of CS study in school, checking for its affects on student learning. It demonstrates one way of approaching CS work from a different perspective.

# Links to Other Pages
  - [Lachney, M., Bennett, A., Appiah, J., & Eglash, R. (2016). Modeling in ethnocomputing: Replacing bi-directional flows with recursive emergence. _Revista Internacional De Pesquisa Em Educação Matemática_, _6_(1), 219–243.](http://funes.uniandes.edu.co/26423/1/Lachney2016Modeling.pdf)
  