[[Making epistemological trouble]]
[[Promoting Social Creativity in Science Education With Digital Technology to Overcome Inequalities]]
[[Modeling in ethnocomputing]]

The articles in this section look at various approaches to HCI theorizing, education and computational development. They start off a larger conversation that questions the cannon of science knowledge evaluation as it is being employed in HCI and CS work and point out how dominant paradigms are seeking a singular approach to development that is not commensurate with the diverse needs of a global population. In [[Making epistemological trouble]], Harrison, Sengers and Tatar note that some work is being done connected to ethnographic approaches with HCI. However ethnography has its own troublesome past with delivering meaningful change for Indigenous community and there is research showing that Indigenous people take different approaches to digital tool development (see the work of Wemigwans and Iske-Barnes for two examples of this research). For that reason Harrison et. al. suggest there is a need to disrupt current HCI approaches and point to the work of feminist approaches to science to question whether a singular approach is desirable or even possible. 
Within these three articles there are various explorations of how to instil creativity in science education (see [[Promoting Social Creativity in Science Education With Digital Technology to Overcome Inequalities]]) and computer science (see [[Modeling in ethnocomputing]]) that have shown some success with teaching students. There are broader questions though about whether it is possible to work inside the existing paradigms of science and technological development or if we must accept that diversity and current development are unreconcilable. As Agre states, "A critical technical practice would not model itself on what Kuhn called ‘normal science,’ much less on conventional engineering. Instead of seeking foundations it would embrace the impossibility of foundations, guiding itself by a continually unfolding awareness of its own workings as a historically specific practice" (cited in [[Making epistemological trouble]])

[[0. Critical Analyses]]
# Other Reading
Wemigwans, J. (2018). _A digital bundle: Protecting and promoting indigenous knowledge online_. University of Regina Press. https://cjc.utpjournals.press/doi/10.22230/cjc.2020v45n1a3683

Iseke, J., & Moore, S. (2011). Community-based Indigenous Digital Storytelling with Elders and Youth. _American Indian Culture and Research Journal_, _35_(4), 19–38. [https://doi.org/10.17953/aicr.35.4.4588445552858866](https://doi.org/10.17953/aicr.35.4.4588445552858866)