[[20-29 York Study/25 Courses/25.02 Directed Reading Vault/5 The Readings/An Emerging Decolonizing Science Education in Canada|An Emerging Decolonizing Science Education in Canada]]
[[Transformative Education for Aboriginal Mathematics Learning]]
[[Make Space for Indigeneity]]

The current dominate processes of teaching science have issues for students from outside of the that dominate culture. In spite of the claim to be working from a universal system of knowledge, the Eurocentric system is culturally based and poses problems for some bodies of students. In the case of Indigenous students their cultures and home knowledges are marginalized leading to an under-representation of Indigenous students in science studies (see [[20-29 York Study/25 Courses/25.02 Directed Reading Vault/5 The Readings/An Emerging Decolonizing Science Education in Canada|An Emerging Decolonizing Science Education in Canada]]). For this reason there is a need to develop different approaches to teaching science, at the very least for students who come from Indigenous communities. However, there are advantages for other students as well in taking on an Indigenous approach to science. As Aikenhead notes, when students learn through alternate modes of thinking and being, the cultural framework of Eurocentric systems becomes evident due to the new frame of reference. You can see what it is good at and where it falls short because you are aware of errors in the assumptions made in Eurocentric traditions.

While Eurocentric and Indigenous epistemologies may not be entirely commensurate, they do share commonalities in that they are "culture based, empirical, experimental, rational, communal, and dynamic," (Aikenhead). This can be used as a starting place for learners. Archibald's work demonstrates one method for developing mathematics teaching through consistent contact between researchers, teachers, elders, knowledge keepers, students and their families. The method that was developed over a long term project supported both the curriculum creation and the maintenance of relationships that sponsored success (see [[Transformative Education for Aboriginal Mathematics Learning]]). Likewise
Aikenhead proposes a process for teaching training that involves working with community people who are knowledgable in Indigenous wold-views and experienced in their practice. This process which is ostensibly about changing teacher practice also asks educators to develop respect for other epistemologies they are unfamiliar with.

Smith in her work notes there is a need for non-Indigenous educators and system leaders to work on their own learning. She notes they are required to broaden their understanding of how and where learning can happen and seeing Indigenous students for what they have to offer and not what they need (see [[Make Space for Indigeneity]]). Therefore, The process of professional development regarding Indigenous knowledge is more than access to information and voice. It is also about acquisition of a way of thinking, which might be the hardest thing to accomplish in the short amount of time available to teachers and administrators learning while in service.

There is a need to move beyond client status in areas of engineering and science research and learning. We are seeing communities who are starting to have access to their own lawyers, teachers and social workers, folks who can create solutions for the community that work at the fundamental cultural level and that brings about healing. In the same way, communities need access to their own doctors, scientists and engineers to help preserve their ways of being, and improve access to infrastructure. With the arrival of more Indigenous engineers, the world itself will benefit, because as Little bear notes (see [Indigenous Knowledge and Western Science: Dr. Leroy Little Bear Talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gJSJ28eEUjI&t=90s)) the world is in need of different ways of thinking.

[[0. Critical Analyses]]