
[[A Dynamic Perspective of Internet Service Provider Adoption of Emergent Network Technology]]
[[Sami-digital storytelling]]
[[Technology and Inuit identity]]
[[(Re)Imagining Indigenous Educational Design]]

The advent of digital media and wider availability of both computational devices and the internet has opened up possibilities for Indigenous communities to build culture, connections and explore their collective future. Social media tools make it possible for community members to connect over distance in ways that have not been previously possible. As Castelton points out ([[Technology and Inuit identity]]), many Indigenous cultures are using social media tools like Facebook to connect and share with each other. The private and semi-private locations also allow for some sense of control over who interacts and how they interact. At the same time it also allows for those who live away from their community to stay in touch ([In Canada more than 50% of Indigenous people live away from their community](https://www.sac-isc.gc.ca/eng/1690909773300/1690909797208) ). Like any public or semi-public location there are risks of being attacked or harmed and so social media tools must be approached with care and attention to how people interact with them. However, they afford an ability to build up and carry culture forward.

At the same time video games offer a means of working with and learning traditional knowledge and distributing it through closely related traditional practice ([[Sami-digital storytelling]]) It is getting easier and quicker to create games however they do still take time and expertise (See LaPensée and Lameman et. al.). The stories used in creating these games offer a chance for youth to interact with their traditions and their elders via the mode of the game, when they are developed with community people. There are concerns with issues of their distribution, appropriation and commodification of the ideas that are transmitted through them (see Byrne). However, playing the games and even designing them allow students/youth access to those stories and ways of thinking where they are and affords them connection to their community.

Growing connectivity however is not universally available and comes at a higher price. Due to locations away from main power grids and communication systems not all Indigenous communities have equitable access to digital media. Furthermore, implementing solutions takes time and testing ([[A Dynamic Perspective of Internet Service Provider Adoption of Emergent Network Technology]]). In the same way that community member need to be cared for so do workers, who can be frustrated due to issues of applying technology in unfamiliar places and dealing with policies and procedures developed for urban locations might that hamper solutions in rural and remote spaces. Relationship building between all parties is therefore important as technical solutions created for wide distribution will most likely need work to make functional in the field.

As a whole, digital media tools have the potential of both building up culture and also claiming areas of both digital and physical sovereignty. However, as Meston notes, this won't be fully realized if Indigenous people are not able to access the required learning to use and develop these tools to suit there needs ([[(Re)Imagining Indigenous Educational Design]]). He argues that the development of using and manipulating smart tools, digital media and other computational devices needs to become a part of Indigenous educational agendas alongside the demands for cultural inclusion. He argues that the way forward involves Indigenous nations making computational learning a key part of the educational agenda so they may have the expertise to build and maintain systems that are supportive of their future control of their lives and lands.

Byrne, M. I. (2021, September 25). Read-Only Sacred Spaces: Indigenous Video Games as Space Safe from Vandalism and Theft. _Medium_. [https://meagan-i-byrne.medium.com/read-only-sacred-spaces-indigenous-video-games-as-space-safe-from-vandalism-and-theft-55a0e3e30550](https://meagan-i-byrne.medium.com/read-only-sacred-spaces-indigenous-video-games-as-space-safe-from-vandalism-and-theft-55a0e3e30550)

Lameman, B. A., Lewis, J. E., & Fragnito, S. (2010). Skins 1.0: A curriculum for designing games with first nations youth. _Proceedings of the International Academic Conference on the Future of Game Design and Technology_, 105–112. [https://doi.org/10.1145/1920778.1920793](https://doi.org/10.1145/1920778.1920793)

LaPensée, E. (2014). Survivance as an indigenously determined game. _AlterNative : An International Journal of Indigenous Peoples_, _10_(3), 263–275.

[[0. Critical Analyses]]