The research by Canevez, Maitland and Rantanen, looks at the implementation of a wireless Internet network on a reservation in the southwestern United States. The research examines the impact on the workers who installed the solution and highlights the difficulties of dealing with terrain, power problems, and issues caused by regulatory policies. The article points out that for rural communities, the problems associated with implementing broader Internet service are affected by unique situations. This means that widely available technical solutions that work in urban and suburban locations are not readily useable and this increases the cost and effectiveness of any solution. They also highlight that frustrations at the worker level and higher costs associated with creating a new system could potentially lead to solutions not being fully explored.
# Key Quotes
> [!Quote] Quote
>There are at least two factors likely to have dynamic elements: (1) the evocative, or emotional, impacts of accruing experience with a technology, and (2) the evolution of regulatory and structural con- ditions surrounding that technology.

> [!Quote] Quote
>For technological producers, failure to account for these impacts insofar as they are experienced at the local levels (a challenge when technologies are produced to fit broader national or global contexts) can hinder the usability of these emergent technologies beyond simply their technical characteristics, so the need for clear communication and close interaction with mediators ought to be imperative in order to maximize the chances of a successful diffu- sion process.

# My Thoughts
  - Restrictive policy can hamper innovation and this is problematic when developing solutions for Indigenous communities. Rural and remote communities have unique needs. Policies and procedures developed for urban and suburban locations will not necessarily work in these spaces. For that reason policy should be initially flexible to support developing solutions and be amendable to meet the needs of the community.
  - When solving technical problems and setting up systems, it isn't just the end user who is affected. Those who set up and maintain the system are also affected emotionally through the labour. One must consider how these folks are cared for so that they can do the work of caring for others. We recognize this need in education, however it should be understood this type of care is required in many areas when it comes to trying to build services for those who are less advantaged due to colonialism, economic status, etc.

# Relation to [[4. Sociotechnical impacts of digital affordances on Indigenous community]]
  - Even when setting up technical solutions like a broadband network, relationship building is important and therefore expectations should be adjusted for Indigenous communities. There is a need to work on introductions and visits in order to build up a successful network and help people integrate the technology into their life.
  - Organizations that implement technology and technical solutions must be ready to support staff emotionally as they work through unique problems, otherwise they may abandon work due to frustration. Should this happen communities might be denied opportunities to improve communication affordances. Context affects implementation of technology because people are called on to install it. Therefore generalizable solutions theorized in any location must be flexible enough to fit into the real situations of their rollout in other spaces.

# Links to Other Pages
  - Duarte, M. E., Vigil-Hayes, M., Zegura, E., Belding, E., Masara, I., & Nevarez, J. C. (2021). As a Squash Plant Grows: Social Textures of Sparse Internet Connectivity in Rural and Tribal Communities. _ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction_, _28_(3), 1–16. [https://doi.org/10.1145/3453862](https://doi.org/10.1145/3453862)
