The article is an important exploration, not just of what is happening in Canada, but in other Indigenous contexts globally. Aikenhead provides clear definitions of what an Indigenous and decolonized science curriculum might look like. In doing this he defines the key elements of a decolonized curriculum that is aware of its relation to colonial models as well as the more traditional models of local Indigenous practices. He then goes on to discuss ways in which teachers can learn from local elders and knowledge keepers in order to learn how to teach in a decolonized way. He also notes that the need for respect is required in this process and that ultimately teachers will need to accept responsibility for learning knowledge before incorporating it into their educational work.
# Key Quotes
> [!Quote] Quote
>In countries with a history of colonial oppression, these problems of alienation are magnified for Indigenous students, whose home culture often differs dramatically from the culture of school science. Indigenous ways of living in nature have not generally been welcomed in science classrooms, and Indigenous students must suppress such knowledge to meet the conventional goal of thinking, behaving, and believing like a scientist. Thus, school science overtly and covertly marginalizes Indigenous students by its ideology of neo-colonialism—a process that systemically undermines the cultural values of a formerly colonized group (Ryan, 2008). As a result, an alarming underrepresentation of Indigenous students in senior sciences persists.

> [!Quote] Quote
>Both knowledge systems are culture based. To successfully engage students in developing scientific literacy through the learning context of cultural perspectives, teachers need to honor protocols for obtaining knowledge from a Knowledge Keeper and to take responsibility for learning that knowledge.

# My Thoughts
  - Aikenhead notes that while teachers can't control the influence of large society that doesn't appreciate Indigenous knowledge as it relates to science, they are in control of how it is represented and integrated in their classrooms. This responsibility regarding entrenchment of thought patterns is important when judging the presentation of "facts" in a classroom. Because of the need for teachers to spearhead change, there is a need for professional development so that teachers are equipped to teach with pedagogies they have not experienced as students are educators
  - Aikenhead offers an excellent and concise definition of Indigenous science learning - "journeys towards wisdom-in-action: Indigenous ways of knowing nature combine the ontology of monism and spirituality with the epistemology of place-based, holistic, relational, and empirical practices in order to celebrate an ideology of harmony with nature for the purpose of community survival (Aikenhead, 2006b)." This definition can act as framework for lesson planning and pedagogical frameworks that work from and for the best interests of Indigenous communities. The specific mention of place-based knowledge inherently calls on learning that is locally contextualized when it comes to finding examples of phenomena and other content that is covered in western science classrooms. Later in the article he goes on to state that cross-cultural science curriculum should also be incorporated into the development process where, "students learn to master and utilize Eurocentric science and technology without, in the process, sacrificing their own cultural ways of knowing nature. Cross-cultural school science nurtures walking in both worlds—Indigenous and Eurocentric." 

# Relation to [[2. Transforming educational practice]]
  Aikenhead theorizes a definition of decolonial education, the requirements of curricular development and requirements for teacher training. He is able to describe a different approach to scientific knowledge outside of the traditions of a single mode of thinking (intellectual) versus by defining a multi-modal process of "thinking, living and being" (wisdom). By working from this distinction it is possible to start mapping out how to change current practices and the types of teaching training that are required. As Aikenhead notes both traditions share core principles, "culture based, empirical, experimental, rational, communal, and dynamic," so they are commensurable in some ways. However, the worldviews the systems come from are very different and therefore require different approaches. He states the difference plainly when he writes, "scientists *see* the world, whereas Indigenous Elders *inhabit* the world". For that reason, it is clear that practice needs to change if we are going to create a science curriculum that is supportive of Indigenous student wellbeing as well as Indigenous survival through continuance of knowledge and thought
