This article looks at examples of Indigenous mapping, using digital tools to counter the narratives of dominant historical and contemporary mapping styles. One of the projects that it examines closely, overlays Indigenous maps and land use onto conventional ones in an effort to disrupt colonial representation of city spaces that are devoid of Indigenous presence. The counter mapping practises demonstrate possible methods for Indigenous communities to contest the narratives that exist in settler-colonial maps to reclaim story and presence on the physical land through the employment of digital and virtual means.
# Key Quotes
> [!Quote] Quote
>At the same time, out of necessity, counter-mapping efforts frequently employ, and therefore are subject to, the limitations of existing cartographic (and digital) tools. The result is that the very strategies used to resist dominant mapping techniques may also circumscribe the kinds of interventions that are possible, and in some cases even reinscribe elements of settler colonial cartography.

> [!Quote] Quote
>‘The Living Atlas’ project is an interactive thematic atlas focused on the changing geographies of a number of First Nation territories, from the Nuu-chah-nulth First Nations and Okanagan Nation Alliance in British Columbia, to the Northeast Superior Forest Community in Ontario. These maps allow First Nation communities to map integral characteristics of their territories, previously unaccounted for on traditional Euro-Canadian maps, from climate change and health, to Indigenous food sheds and culturally significant locations.

# My Thoughts
  - The ideas of counter-mapping that are explored in the article point to some of the current Indigenous uses of digital mapping tools. The technology exists for changing and overlaying information that is important and contextualized to Indigenous community and can be taught in school in line with the Grade 9 Geography curriculum (specifically I am discussing Ontario curriculum). However, this can only be truly realized when community is directly involved, and those who carry the historical and contemporary knowledge are able to engage with the creation of the materials. This means that we need to undertake specialized short-term projects or set up properly funded systems to develop the mapping and teaching materials to go along with them if we are to see a whole change in understanding of how mapping can be used to support Indigenous knowledge acquisition and continuance.
  - Accessing the mapping projects discussed in the article is not easy. The projects do not show up in broad internet searches and in the case of Amiskwaciwâskahikan, once you arrive at the Hypercities link (https://www.hypercities.com/maplibrary/) and look at the Edmonton archive, the images that are superimposed are primarily of colonial origin. It can be difficult to discern what value they have in understanding Indigenous presence on the land. The examples call into question the sustainability of these projects and their permanence. For these products to make meaningful and long term impressions they need to remain accessible. In order for this to happen they need to be community sponsored and community maintained, like other mapping products and place making tools (signs for instance). For this to happen we need to develop expertise and roles within Indigenous community to set up and maintain these processes and products. Jennifer Wemigwans discusses this issue of maintaning Indigenous produced web products with Sharma in [Toward a Media Theory of the Digital Bundle A Conversation with Jennifer Wemigwans](https://www.degruyter.com/document/doi/10.1515/9781478022497-015/html).

# Relation to [[5. Indigenous responses to and uses of digital tools]]
  - The works that Hunt and Stevenson examine show the possibilities of digital mapping by community members and communities. The lack of permanence and difficulty of accessing materials also demonstrates the precarious nature of these types of digital media products. The authors do a good job of discussing the historical and contemporary uses of cartography to further settler permanence and ambition and point out the tools of digital mapping and superimposing Indigenous points of view over dominant map products can counter this ambition by rewriting narratives and disrupting colonial layout of lands for private ownership, and corporate extraction. By showing Indigenous presence, both in contemporary and historical terms, digital mapping tools can assert survivance of Indigenous peoples within their very local contexts. However, I would point out this can only happen when the products are readily available to support Indigenous voice and non-Indigenous understanding.

# Links to Other Pages
- [[Grade 9 Geography]] Lesson Plan
- [Hypercities Maplibrary](https://www.hypercities.com/maplibrary/)Upon opening the link you will need to enter the city name - in this context it is Edmonton, to be able to see how the older maps cover the current city layout  
- [**Hunt, D., & Stevenson, S. A.** (2017). Decolonizing geographies of power: Indigenous digital counter-mapping practices on Turtle Island. _Settler Colonial Studies_, _7_(3), 372–392.](https://www-tandfonline-com.ezproxy.library.yorku.ca/doi/full/10.1080/2201473X.2016.1186311#abstract)
- [Toward a Media Theory of the Digital Bundle A Conversation with Jennifer Wemigwans](https://www.degruyter.com/document/doi/10.1515/9781478022497-015/html).