Eglash et al argue that it is important to incorporate Indigenous knowledge systems into STEM education to create a more equitable learning environment for Indigenous people. The paper looks at various case studies conducted in diverse Indigenous communities from around the globe. There was a statistically significant improvement in STEM skill and interest in STEM studies for those involved in the work which was based on "generative frameworks". The studies looked at the difference between linear (Western) approaches versus non-linear (Indigenous) approaches and showed that students engaged better with teachers. Indigenous There was significant focus on ideas around material agency from Indigenous communities and how it leads to more collaborative relationships with local community that lead to further avenues of learning and knowledge creation over time. 
# Key Quotes
> [!Quote] Quote
>(U)tilizing representations of these traditions in secondary education and teacher professional development can show statistically significant and notable improvements in young people (and adult) interest in and/or understanding of STEM and, in the case of students, a strong engagement with teachers

> [!Quote] Quote
>Research in collaboration with Indigenous communities means you can engage with the actual relations between wood, seeds, dung, and milk; beading, carving, lashing, gathering, hunting, and cooking; drumming, praying, protesting, playing, teaching, and theorizing; in short an entire ecosystem of human and nonhuman interactions richly interwoven with the cosmological theory and practice that make up Indigenous ways of knowing. In contrast, the references to Indigenous knowledge by quantum epistemology advocates are too often a research dead end.

# My Thoughts
  - The article examines some of the larger effects of US engineering and science on Indigenous populations by looking at the effects of nuclear weapons and nuclear power development. I would add local examples to further the argument that the products of engineering and science education are not neutral in their effects upon Indigenous people in Canada. For example large scale dam projects across Canada (Winnipeg water reservoir, Hydro Quebec flooding of Cree and Innu lands), tar sands development, gas extraction (fracking) projects, the Grassy Narrows mercury poisoning from a pulp and paper mill, as well as the oil refinery operations in Sarnia that lead to air alerts and higher than normal female births in the community of Aamjiwnaang First Nation, all demonstrate how First Nations are affected negatively by engineering and science projects developed for those living in non-Native centres.
  - The authors state that learning about Indigenous Knowledge leads naturally to discussions of the problems with implementation in Western science and engineering, which is important for students to learn about. They hold that generative STEM pedagogy in western education systems, that meaningfully integrate Indigenous knowledge systems and concepts of material agency and user agency, would create meaningful connections between students and their communities. This type of applicable STEM leaning can build interest and skills in STEM subjects for all students, and move away from a purely "content-agnostic" perspectives towards a more culturally relevant and transformative educational experience for students and could be applied to digital media instruction like the ideas discussed in Meston, [[(Re)Imagining Indigenous Educational Design]]. This article stands critical of the system of education in Ontario as described by Kim in [[Neo-colonialism in Our Schools]] that is tokenistic when it choses to include Indigenous knowledge.
# # Relation to [[5. Indigenous responses to and uses of digital tools]]
  - Studies like the ones reviewed in this article demonstrate a positive result when Indigenous knowledge and practices are examined and used in STEM education, specifically computer science education. They show merit in the pursuit of including and teaching from sources of Indigenous knowledge as it relates to developing interest in STEM study among a wide range of students. It is reasonable to attempt similar projects in computer science education to improve connections between Indigenous students and the subject by including their own communities. For example the development of CS projects that would serve the needs of local community would demonstrate the connection between the subject and their own well being and show avenues for pursuing education in this area beyond the development of games or artistic products. By tackling authentic community problems they would also develop an understanding of what issues are deemed important by the community and learn about the different between their local issues and those of provincial, state or national interests that might not be relevant to their own well-being or in their best interest.

# Links to Other Pages
  - [Decolonizing posthumanism: Indigenous material agency in generative STEM](https://bera-journals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjet.12963)
  - [[Imagining Indigenous Educational Design]]
  - [[Neo-colonialism in Our Schools]]