Kim makes a thorough examination of the Ontario Ministry of Education attempted to include Indigenous knowledge in an update of elementary school curriculum. She has found the portrayal to be largely negative. In many cases she points out that Indigenous knowledge is not held up us having in its own strength and is equated with ancient ideas of other cultures, failing to show its current relevance to students and society in general. It reaffirms the impression that Indigenous knowledge is outdated.
The focus on Eurocentric ideas in the science curriculum is also pointed as being unhelpful for many Indigenous students in the province because it is not directly related to life experience of students. Kim notes there are also missed opportunities in how problems for Indigenous communities are taken up. In looking at issues of mercury in the water for the community of Grassy Narrows, the curriculum example holds up western science as the solution to the problem. It however skips over the point that it was western science and industry that caused the problem in the first case.
Indigenous knowledge is presented in other cases as an alternative to western science rather than a valid scientific point of view, even though Indigenous knowledge is internationally valued for its understanding of the environment and how to care for it. This is despite the fact as Kim points out that both systems follow the same principles of "systemic experimental approaches and both share intellectual processes that include observing, questioning, interpreting, looking for patterns, inferring, and classifying" (p. 18). The point is made that this portrayal of Indigenous knowledge as suspect and requiring western validation is political. Kim argues that this curriculum is explicitly built to maintain a hierarchy of knowledge and "has played a role in creating this exclusive “club” within their science education." (p. 21)

# Key Quotes
> [!Quote] Quote
>These logging companies have left vast amounts of mercury in the land and the river, as a result of which high levels of mercury have remained in the community’s water system. This problem stemmed from the government and the capitalist economic system, not from this Aboriginal community. However, by failing to mention the accurate cause of the problem, the curriculum gives the impression that the environmental problem first transpired from within the Aboriginal community.

> [!Quote] Quote
>This portrayal of Aboriginal knowledges and technologies as “alternative” and not yet validated by WMS conveys a message of uncertainty regarding the legitimacy of Indigenous knowledges and technologies.

# My Thoughts
  - One of the key points that Kim makes through Aikenhead and Mitchell is that the process of science is a human one. Observation over time and curiosity about how the universe works and then using the knowledge gained was not created created solely by great Western thinkers. It is a process common to all human ancestors.
  - Kim argues that neo-colonial examples of curriculum are built to absorb Indigenous knowledge into western systems where it serves the political agenda (Kim). This would be another example of assimilationist reconciliation agendas that take what is useful for the preservation of the current system and leave the rest behind.

# Relation to [[3. Colonial STEM education issues]]
  - Indigenous knowledge is fractured in its representation in western science classrooms. As noted by both Cajete and Aikenhead, Indigenous knowledge is contextualized to the local area.  When it is presented out of context and not related to life of the student it is viewable as "primitive, backward, or superstitious". 
  - Kim argues the claim that IK cannot be incorporated into the physical science of the Ontario curriculum is a shallow view if what is possible. 
