Aguilar and Turmo examine how digital technology can be used in science education to promote social creativity and diminish inequalities among students. The study reviews 23 cases that ask: which digital technology builds collaborative and creative work connected to science learning; which forms and features of technology support students being creative; and what pedagogy guides collaborative creativity using technology for wide student use. The study found it is possible for technology to take on a variety of roles to build social creativity, act as a tutoring device, form students' thinking, and to be a medium for collective creative processes.
# Key Quotes
> [!Quote] Quote
>[C]reativity can be considered as “the ability to produce work that is both novel and appropriate” (Sternberg and Lubart, 1999, p. 3). Loveless (2003) highlights that this definition expresses four characteristics of creativity: a fashioning process, pursuing purpose, being novel, and judging value. Thus, creativity can be understood as the combination of different skills, knowledge, motivations, and attitudes that individuals use to evaluate a variety of input ideas in multiple perspectives and dimensions to create a new, valuable and original idea or product.

> [!Quote] Quote
>Digital technologies can be seen as tools available to facilitate key creative processes in science. In this situation, technology contributes to increasing opportunities to facilitate creative processes in science. The teacher plays an important role in using technology because s/he designs and supervises activities requiring the use of technology.

# My Thoughts
  - The use of digital technology to teach science through creative processes can be mapped onto Indigenous pedagogy and process of research and community based development. One key question though in doing this is does the new creation support survival of the people and resurgence? The technology is not benign because it will work through the lens of the educator who controls the classroom learning and the space that they create for students to work in.
  - Digital technology is a key to modern science practice and in some classroom cases it returns creativity and experiential connections to science education. One digital tool, Kahn Academy, started as a way for one man to support his niece and nephew through school at a distance, which has grown into a world wide phenomena of knowledge sharing. The teacher plays a significant role in accessing technology in the classroom by designing the lessons and assignments that interact with it. Therefore their connection and understanding of the digital tool is important for adoption in their practice. At the same time that teacher can make connections to Indigenous knowledge or deny them. For that reason teacher training and efficacy are as important as the access to the technology.

# Relation to [1. Introduction to HCI disruption](1.%20Introduction%20to%20HCI%20disruption.md)
  - The study points to a wide variety of possibilities for science education beyond the standard process of book and lecture learning. By reviewing many examples of "creative" science work in classrooms they point to possibilities for educational reform. The fact that technology has made creative approaches to science education more possible should lead us to question our  models of HCI development and wonder how we might stretch our tools to shake up educational systems.

# Links to Other Pages
  - [Promoting Social Creativity in Science Education With Digital Technology to Overcome Inequalities: A Scoping Review. _Frontiers in Psychology_, _10_.](https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2019.01474)
