The article discusses how Sami digital games, developed at the 2018 Sami Game Jam, use storytelling to revitalize and communicate Sami cultural traditions. the Sami are the Indigenous culture of Scandinavia. Games like Gufihtara eallu engage players in interactive narratives that reflect Sami oral history. This approach allows Indigenous voices to be prioritized and showcases the potential of digital media to preserve and adapt storytelling practices. The discussion looks at games developed by other Indigenous people in different areas to make connections between traditional story use and game development. 
# Key Quotes
> [!Quote] Quote
>digital games that engage Indigenous traditions resist the cultural hegemony of settler colonialism through digital means by embodying Indigenous epistemologies in their game design and modeling Indigenous methodologies in the interactive nature of the medium, coding Indigeneity into the very foundation of their game mechanics.

> [!Quote] Quote
>Digital games on Indigenous themes there- fore enable game designers and players to explore different strategies in cultural preservation and revitalization (Winter and Boudreau, 2018: 41), revealing the role of digital technologies could play in the work of truth and reconciliation.

# My Thoughts
  - While Nijdam notes that story plays a significant role in the Sami-video game (p. 3101) I am wondering what about ethics or ways of being as the basis of the game. With the many stories that exist in Indigenous societies there is also plenty of learning that happens through experience in relationship with others, both human and non human. There is an opportunity to explore different ethical ways of thinking and acting through games which would changes the parameters of what it means to win.
  - As Nijdam and others note, designers need to be wary of appropriation, and commodification of knowledge and stories. This adds a level of restriction to using them which also hampers their distribution to Indigenous community. This hampering of distribution is another example of how Indigenous being is restricted by the actions or possible actions of non-Indigenous people. 

# Relation to [[4. Sociotechnical impacts of digital affordances on Indigenous community]]
  - Games as a medium are a good means of communicating and building culture. Their natural basis in story allows for the transmission of Indigenous knowledge through means that are closely related to their original means of transmission. However as with other technical solutions, cost of development can be a barrier as well as concerns about who has access to the knowledge and what happens with it after it is released.
  - the aim of these types of programs should be to embed Indigenous knowledge systems and methodologies within the design and mechanics of the games and that this could involve coding cultural values and practices into gameplay to create experiences that reflect worldviews rather than assimilating Indigenous identity into Western paradigms. 
