In “Supporting Self-Determined Indigenous Innovations: Rethinking the Digital Divide in Canada,” Jasmin Winter and Justine Boudreau argue for the necessity of Indigenous digital self-determination, emphasizing the shift from passive consumption to active innovation with technology. They are critical of colonial narratives that marginalize Indigenous technological agency, and highlight the importance of Indigenous voices in reshaping the discourse around the digital divide.
The article explores various attempts to do this, such as digital storytelling and virtual reality projects, that have allowed Indigenous communities to control their technological futures. They cite Jason Lewis (2005) and Michelle Raheja (2010) to illustrate how digital spaces can serve as “virtual reservations,” fostering Indigenous knowledge systems and cultural continuity. The critique extends to Eurocentric diffusionism, which undermines Indigenous contributions to technological progress.
Winter and Boudreau advocate for a strength-based approach to technological development, prioritizing community-driven initiatives over top-down interventions. Here they look at programs like Dames Making Games and InSTEM which they feel exemplifies the potential for Indigenous youth to creatively engage with technology. The authors advocate for a holistic view that acknowledges the complex relationship between Indigenous peoples, technology, and the environment and caution against accepting a dichotomy of “real” and “virtual” worlds.
Finally they look at a Makerspace project they see as promising for Indigenous innovation as it integrates Indigenous methodologies and worldviews. The TMK project works to connect traditional knowledge with contemporary makerspace theories to enhance community well-being. The article concludes by emphasizing the need for technological development projects to acknowledge colonial legacies and adopt a thoughtful approach to reconciliation.
# Key Quotes
> [!Quote] Quote
>However, when conceptualizations of the “real” world and the “virtual” world are dichotomized, Indigenous peoples find themselves once again stuck at another false paradox, one in which they face the need to challenge the trope of the “Ecological Indian” (Krech, 2000), a caricature of the complex relationship that Indigenous peoples have to place and the land.

> [!Quote] Quote
>Technological development in Indigenous communities demands a more thoughtful, and oftentimes more uncomfortable, approach to reconciliation that looks to the past in order to look to the future.

# My Thoughts
  - The image of the environmentalist belays the actual ideal of being a part of nature and a participant in life. It also hides the fact that the environment does not need us for it's survival but rather the other way around. We are children of the earth not its parent. Our role is that of a child who should learn to clean up the house after we have made a mess, not the parent rearranging the furniture and deciding who gets to stay in the house.
  - When it comes to learning we must remember it takes over 10 years to train a non-Native student in school to be ready for non-Native post secondary school. Why would we expect it to be less for native children who are in some cases learning two or more cultures at the same time? Projects like the maker-space need to permanently available to students in order to make change and also be changed by them into something more Indigenous. 

# Relation to [[6. Revisioning how we teach CS and digital technologies]]
- The article emphasizes the importance of "Indigenous digital self-determination", and suggests that curricula should prioritize student agency and allow learners to shape their own technological paths. Integrating Indigenous knowledge systems into education should be holistic in its approach and make people aware of technology’s explicit role in society. Boudreau and Winter's critique of colonial narratives is common, but its advocating for the inclusion of diverse technological histories and contributions in educational content is an important approach. The strength-based focus they recommend is necessary (and reminiscent of Tuck and Wang's desire based research), because it pushes back against deficit models inherent in Western learning and accesses students’ existing skills and knowledge to build confidence and competence as they tackle challenges. 
- The use of community-driven initiatives and partnerships is well thought out for creating relevant and beneficial learning experiences that demonstrate to students how they are useful and in need. The article also advocates for a holistic view of technology, integrating environmental science, cultural studies, and ethics into curricula. Finally the use of Makerspaces that are highlighted as effective venues for hands-on learning, align with Indigenous methodologies of learning by doing. As they note it is necessary to address colonial legacies in technological tools by encouraging a critical and reflective approach to teaching students in order to build a more equitable technological future.

# Links to Other Pages
  - Tuck, E. (2009). Suspending damage: A letter to communities. _Harvard Educational Review, 79_(3), 409–427. [https://doi.org/10.17763/haer.79.3.n0016675661t3n15](https://psycnet.apa.org/doi/10.17763/haer.79.3.n0016675661t3n15)