The article compares science curriculum in the USA and Kenya through the metaphor of windows and mirrors, highlighting inefficiencies and lack of relevance in both systems. Mutegi and Momanyi note there is not much appetite for altering programs and efforts to make change are weakened because leadership maintains pressure on teachers to prepare students for tests. He points out that science education lacks relevance for many Kenyans, noting a very low percentage of students will actually score well enough to study sciences in post-secondary school, 20% or less. He also points out the system remains inefficient upon graduation from university, highlighting that only around half of graduates are able to find work in their area of study. To make a point about the relevance of science education the authors look at the localized economy which accounted for 90% of new job creation in 2016. Most were able to find this employment without the science education offered at top secondary schools and top universities. The authors suggest that science education needs to examine its approaches if it is going to to be more relevant and efficient.

# Key Quotes
> [!Quote] Quote
>the decision to devote educational resources to the study of subjects like “living, non-living, and dead” while simultaneously deprioritizing the development of gardening knowledge and skills is not an oversight of the Ministry of Education. It is a conscious decision grounded in history, tradition and ideological commitment.

> [!Quote] Quote
>Of the 80% of students who do not transition from primary school to the top secondary schools and the 80% of students who do not transition from secondary school to the top universities, many of them enter the informal sector or the Jua Kali.
# My Thoughts
  - One issue with rationalism is it leaves out certain people so the act of learning from rationalism is not necessarily a bad thing but it is restrictive in how it teaches and it excludes. This is an issue. It presents a singular point of view.
  - The idea that science education is purposely structured to be irrelevant to students is profound. It is based on skill development and choosing those who are good at memorizing and drilling, but does it lead to a student who can make use of science thinking on a regular basis? Shouldn't that be the goal of something we are all supposed to learn? To make change we are working against a tradition of sorting students while simultaneously denying other traditions of science knowledge that might possibly be relevant based on lived experiences.
  - The Indigenous and informal economy of Kenya which is outside of westernized employment made up 90% of job creation in Kenya in 2016. The question for Indigenous Canadians is can we generate our own jobs and economy in a similar way or are we destined to work primarily in the industries of the west.

# Relation to [[3. Colonial STEM education issues]]
  - Schooling as presented in both Kenya and the US, tends towards a focus on rationalism and shies away from other ways of seeing and knowing. Schooling doesn't need to be one or the other. It can include both. There are at least two parts to teaching - what you teach and how you teach it. A slow process of change to include different perspectives can lead to meaningful improvements in student learning if you look across the whole spectrum of students and work so that most if not all develop a solid understanding of science needed for day to day living. 
  - Mutegi points out that making change is difficult. The system is resilient because it is ingrained in society, supports the status quo and is supported by it. The author suggests that small scale approaches to change are better placed to develop alternatives. I would suggest that successful smaller alternatives might also be widely adopted latter, in this case I am thinking about how Stem has become the topic if interest yet no real change is happening.

# Links to Other Pages
  - Kearns, L.-L. (2011). High-stakes standardized testing and marginalized youth: An examination of the impact on those who fail. Canadian Journal of Education, 34(2), 112–130. https://journals.sfu.ca/cje/index.php/cje-rce/article/download/354/1033