[[Three images of the US science curriculum as reflected through Kenya’s Jua Kali]]
[[Neo-colonialism in Our Schools]]
[[20-29 York Study/25 Courses/25.02 Directed Reading Vault/5 The Readings/Critical Analysis of Problems Encountered in Incorporating Indigenous Knowledge in Science Teaching by Primary School Teachers in Zimbabwe|Critical Analysis of Problems Encountered in Incorporating Indigenous Knowledge in Science Teaching by Primary School Teachers in Zimbabwe]]

Science education in many parts of the world, in these studies specifically Kenya, Zimbabwe, The United States and Canada, is built upon rationalist approaches and is difficult to change. Mutegi  and Momanyi note the system of education is set up purposely to separate students from local knowledge and to privilege a few. The continuance of this practice means efforts to Indigenize curriculum will largely fail because the structure of schooling is not changing (see [[Three images of the US science curriculum as reflected through Kenya’s Jua Kali]]). They argue there is space for developing knowledge through "personal relevance", but it requires a process of working with children rather than working on them. Regardless of the inefficiency in the current system to prepare students to study STEM subjects, it is slow or reticent to change. It does after all meet the needs of some. However, there are governments now looking for changes. Ontario recently overhauled areas of computer curriculum in order to fill gaps in skilled knowledge related to STEM subjects (see [Ontario Modernizing Computer Studies and Tech-Ed Curriculum to Ensure Students Are Prepared for the Jobs of the Future](https://news.ontario.ca/en/release/1002583/ontario-modernizing-computer-studies-and-tech-ed-curriculum-to-ensure-students-are-prepared-for-the-jobs-of-the-future)). They just aren't looking to fill those gaps with Indigenous students who seek to remain Indigenous.

As Kim notes (see [[Neo-colonialism in Our Schools]]) the presentation of Indigenous knowledge in Ontario schools and the exploration of issues suffered by Indigenous communities is done in way that advantages perceptions of Western systems. This is a very real problem as it would appear that the ills of Indigenous society are because of where they live, how they live or the backward ways of thinking they use, as opposed to the effects of economic and extractive practices that destroy land. It also fails to examine how some communities have limited access to what people in urban settings have, because of political decisions. The perpetrator of the problem is not named and settler society continues to appear innocent, objective and not related to the problem.

Shizhwa notes that the overall dominance of western (European) culture creates challenges that ultimately affect students. He has found like others (see [[2. Transforming educational practice]] and [[6. Revisioning how we teach CS and digital technologies]]) that students can do well in developing scientific efficacy when learning is connected to their personal experiences. In fact Shizhwa finds that teachers struggle to integrate Indigenous knowledge into the curriculum and that lack of connection is common across many of the systems noted here. This leaves students to learn from a culture that does not match their personal experience or connect to their home learning. 

The current science instructional system supports assimilation by coaxing Indigenous students to view settler methods as superior to their own. This is advantageous politically because, it helps to sell extractavist agendas and saves money by avoiding serious teacher training reform. In fact it boosts the current economic agenda conservative and neo-colonial governments to keep non-Indigenous educators in the dark, and working as agents of the state rather than offering them opportunities to expand their frame of reference through professional development.

# Other Reading
- Ministry of Education, “Ontario Modernizing Computer Studies and Tech-Ed Curriculum to Ensure Students Are Prepared for the Jobs of the Future,” news.ontario.ca. Accessed: Oct. 19, 2024. [Online]. Available: https://news.ontario.ca/en/release/1002583/ontario-modernizing-computer-studies-and-tech-ed-curriculum-to-ensure-students-are-prepared-for-the-jobs-of-the-future
- AISES and Kapor Foundation, “State of Diversity: The Native Tech Ecosystem,” Oct. 2023. [Online]. Available: https://www.kaporcenter.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/NativeTechEcosystem_v5a.pdf

[[0. Critical Analyses]]