[[Decolonizing Posthumanism]]
[[My Post-Indian Technological Autobiography]]
[[Decolonizing geographies of power]]

Indigenous development of digital media products has been happening for some time - arguably since the widespread arrival of the internet. The various examples of media development in these particular studies, from artistic reinterpretation of colonial nursery rhymes ( see [[My Post-Indian Technological Autobiography]]) to the development of digital maps (see [[Decolonizing geographies of power]]), offer a glimpse into the possibility of digital media development for speaking back to settler colonial narratives held in multiple types of text. What these studies also show is that the use of digital remixing whether it is remixing cartographic representations of land with Indigenous story of presence or the remixing of a records speaks to Indigenous community. Furthermore the inclusion of Indigenous knowledge in STEM educational settings can lead to stronger student engagement in educational settings and improve understanding of the subject matter (see [[Decolonizing Posthumanism]]). 
Following from this work then, there is a natural question of how these methods developed by artists and communities be used to reform STEM education through digital media products and  education regarding product design? How might learning to use digital media and learning from digital media alter education outcomes for Indigenous students? As stated in the discussion on [[Decolonizing Posthumanism]] there is merit in including Indigenous knowledge as it relates to developing interest in STEM study among a wide range of students. Jennifer Wemigwans in her own work has shown that "Indigenous Knowledge online contributes in significant ways to the movement of Indigenous resurgence and thereby represents a new social movement" controlled by and developed by Indigenous people (Wemigwans. 2018. p. 15). It is reasonable then to attempt  projects in computer science education to improve connections between Indigenous students and any subject by including their own communities in the teaching and application of the tools by tackling authentic community problems. In one case, projects like this would teach students about the issues that affect Indigenous community and highlight the difference between local needs versus the interests of the state, which might run counter to their interests. 
Finally, as noted in the discussion in [[Decolonizing geographies of power]] there is an issue with ongoing access to materials. The work of 2Bears is only available by attending a show. The counter-mapping products are only available as long as a web archive is maintained. The lessons constructed around "generative frameworks" are only available in those classrooms where the studies have been constructed. In order to have a meaningful change in learning and access to Indigenous knowledge communities will need to take on the work of developing and managing their own archives of digital knowledge repositories. Otherwise knowledge will remain ephemeral, in existence as long as the individual who created it is able to maintain the archive, like the Four Directions Teaching project created by Wemigwans (Wemigwans, n.d.).

[[0. Critical Analyses]]
# Other Readings
- Wemigwans, J. (n.d.). _Fourdirectionsteachings.com_. Retrieved September 25, 2024, from [https://www.fourdirectionsteachings.com/interactive.html](https://www.fourdirectionsteachings.com/interactive.html)
- Lameman, B. A., Lewis, J. E., & Fragnito, S. (2010). Skins 1.0: A curriculum for designing games with first nations youth. _Proceedings of the International Academic Conference on the Future of Game Design and Technology_, 105–112. [https://doi.org/10.1145/1920778.1920793](https://doi.org/10.1145/1920778.1920793)
- LaPensee, E. (2014). Survivance as an indigenously determined game. _AlterNative : An International Journal of Indigenous Peoples_, _10_(3), 263–275.