
[[20-29 York Study/25 Courses/25.02 Directed Reading Vault/5 The Readings/A Cultural Computing Curriculum|A Cultural Computing Curriculum]]
[[Supporting Self-Determined Indigenous Innovations]]
[[Culturally Informed Advanced CS Principles]]

As argued in [[(Re)Imagining Indigenous Educational Design]] there is a need for Indigenous education to include technical subject learning. This goes across the spectrum of education locations whether they are urban or rural, tribal or colonial. This is needed to see the specific shifts that are advocated for where Indigenous students are prepared to study STEM subjects at university and college. At issue however is that Indigenous points of view in education have not been used historically in teacher education as seen in other sections of this site (see [[3. Colonial STEM education issues]]). Regardless of the ethnicity or location of the education, traditionally western trained teachers are reticent to bring culture into classroom instruction. 
As Davis et. al. point out there is a lack of research in the area of full semester STEM instruction that includes Indigenous culture (see [[20-29 York Study/25 Courses/25.02 Directed Reading Vault/5 The Readings/A Cultural Computing Curriculum|A Cultural Computing Curriculum]]). What they find in their own study is that teachers need support in building their pedagogical practices in order to include cultural components (see Lameman et al., 2010, for one example of how this has been done at a reserve school). It is unclear precisely what professional development practices will support wide spread changes so there is a need to look at some of the successful work in this area and examine its effects in different locations.
The work that Kuyenga proposes is specifically pointed towards this goal. The framework they propose will look at what is needed by teachers in order to formulate and maintain a cultural shift in computer education (see [[Culturally Informed Advanced CS Principles]]). This is just one examination of what might tried and there is a need to examine more areas of teacher efficacy to apply cultural examples effectively in their practice.
It can be seen in the wider discussion of these [[0. Critical Analyses]] that much of the issues lie in how Indigenous knowledge is approached in educational institutions. Boudreau and Winter point to the strength of various community driven initiatives in carrying out this work. It can be seen in other works here as well (see [[Transformative Education for Aboriginal Mathematics Learning]]) that the ongoing discussion back and forth between teachers, researchers and community members can lead to students feeling both empowered to learn STEM subject matter and maintain their culture. This learning can go across the spectrum of STEM as well to include Makerspaces, mathematics and environmental sciences. The importance of direct and ongoing community involvement cannot be underestimated. As Winter and Boudreau point out, "Makerspaces, while brimming with potential as a pathway towards strength based technological development, can only truly do so if their project designs are informed by Indigenous worldviews and methodologies that draw on the strengths of Indigenous communities." For that reason it is important that any future research on professional development needs to be done within Indigenous methodologies that include elder and knowledgable community member involvement.

- Lameman, B. A., Lewis, J. E., & Fragnito, S. (2010). Skins 1.0: A curriculum for designing games with first nations youth. _Proceedings of the International Academic Conference on the Future of Game Design and Technology_, 105–112. [https://doi.org/10.1145/1920778.1920793](https://doi.org/10.1145/1920778.1920793)

[[0. Critical Analyses]]